week11.md, before:

---
layout: course-page
title: Week 11
---

## Week 11 Module: April 1 -- April 5

Welcome to Week 11 of [MATH F302 UX1 in Spring 2019](index.html).  As always, remember to keep an eye on the [schedule](schedule.pdf) and [Piazza](https://piazza.com/uaf/spring2019/math302ux1/home).

This week, **Midterm Exam 2** must be done on Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday.  It **covers sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.10, 5.1, 5.3, 6.1, 6.2, 9.1, and 9.2**.

This week and in [Week 12](week12) we use _Laplace transform_ methods to solve linear ODEs.  Section 7.1 is about the definition of the Laplace transform, which is an integral which expresses the solution as many exponential rates.  In section 7.2 we actually start to use it to solve ODEs, but we also start to see that the Laplace tranform is a way to _understand_ nonhomogeneous ODEs.  Most engineers understand the relationship between the driving force (nonhomogeneity) and the response (solution) by using the Laplace transform to turn the ODE into an algebraic equation.  The new equation is just multiplication by the _transfer function_.

### Monday 4/1
* [blank slides for section 7.1](assets/slides/7-1.pdf)
* [video: Bueler talks over slides for section 7.1](https://expl.ai/XRCNTSX)
* [work on WebAssign 9.2](https://www.webassign.net/)

### Tuesday 4/2
* <span style="color:blue">**proctored Midterm 2**</span>
* [WebAssign 9.2](https://www.webassign.net/) <span style="color:red">**due at 11pm**</span>

### Wednesday 4/3
* <span style="color:blue">**proctored Midterm 2**</span>

### Thursday 4/4
* <span style="color:blue">**proctored Midterm 2**</span>
* [work on WebAssign 7.1](https://www.webassign.net/)

### Friday 4/5
* [blank slides for section 7.2](assets/slides/7-2.pdf)
* video: Bueler talks over slides for section 7.2 _BUELER TODO_
* [WebAssign 7.1](https://www.webassign.net/) <span style="color:red">**due at 11pm**</span>

### found online
* [Khan Academy: Laplace Transform](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/differential-equations/laplace-transform/laplace-transform-tutorial/v/laplace-transform-1)
* random video: [Calculating a Laplace transform](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wI6ki-_79nc)
* random video: [Introduction to Laplace transforms](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TmDPbofx2Nk)
* hilariously over-produced video: [Laplace tranform explained and visualized intuitively](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6MXMDrs6ZmA)
* [Khan Academy: Inverse Laplace examples](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/differential-equations/laplace-transform/properties-of-laplace-transform/v/inverse-laplace-examples)
* random video: [Laplace transform to solve a differential equation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kbp9qWS-Bsk)
* an old guy at MIT does an [Introduction to the Laplace Transform](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-03-differential-equations-spring-2010/video-lectures/lecture-19-introduction-to-the-laplace-transform/)

<hr>
<a align="left" href="week10">\<-- previous week</a>  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; <a align="right" href="week12">next week --\></a>

Commit message:

post the mid2 summary; only a piazza message is still needed before the exam

week11.md, after:

---
layout: course-page
title: Week 11
---

## Week 11 Module: April 1 -- April 5

Welcome to Week 11 of [MATH F302 UX1 in Spring 2019](index.html).  As always, remember to keep an eye on the [schedule](schedule.pdf) and [Piazza](https://piazza.com/uaf/spring2019/math302ux1/home).

This week, **Midterm Exam 2** must be done on Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday.  It **covers sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.10, 5.1, 5.3, 6.1, 6.2, 9.1, and 9.2**.

See the [summary of Midterm Exam 2](assets/sample/mid2-summary.pdf), which is a very explicit guide to what will be on the midterm.  (This replaces a Sample exam, which I have not produced.)

This week and in [Week 12](week12) we use _Laplace transform_ methods to solve linear ODEs.  Section 7.1 is about the definition of the Laplace transform, which is an integral which expresses the solution as many exponential rates.  In section 7.2 we actually start to use it to solve ODEs, but we also start to see that the Laplace tranform is a way to _understand_ nonhomogeneous ODEs.  Most engineers understand the relationship between the driving force (nonhomogeneity) and the response (solution) by using the Laplace transform to turn the ODE into an algebraic equation.  The new equation is just multiplication by the _transfer function_.

### Monday 4/1
* [blank slides for section 7.1](assets/slides/7-1.pdf)
* [video: Bueler talks over slides for section 7.1](https://expl.ai/XRCNTSX)
* [work on WebAssign 9.2](https://www.webassign.net/)

### Tuesday 4/2
* <span style="color:blue">**proctored Midterm 2**</span>
* [WebAssign 9.2](https://www.webassign.net/) <span style="color:red">**due at 11pm**</span>

### Wednesday 4/3
* <span style="color:blue">**proctored Midterm 2**</span>

### Thursday 4/4
* <span style="color:blue">**proctored Midterm 2**</span>
* [work on WebAssign 7.1](https://www.webassign.net/)

### Friday 4/5
* [blank slides for section 7.2](assets/slides/7-2.pdf)
* video: Bueler talks over slides for section 7.2 _BUELER TODO_
* [WebAssign 7.1](https://www.webassign.net/) <span style="color:red">**due at 11pm**</span>

### found online
* [Khan Academy: Laplace Transform](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/differential-equations/laplace-transform/laplace-transform-tutorial/v/laplace-transform-1)
* random video: [Calculating a Laplace transform](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wI6ki-_79nc)
* random video: [Introduction to Laplace transforms](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TmDPbofx2Nk)
* hilariously over-produced video: [Laplace tranform explained and visualized intuitively](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6MXMDrs6ZmA)
* [Khan Academy: Inverse Laplace examples](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/differential-equations/laplace-transform/properties-of-laplace-transform/v/inverse-laplace-examples)
* random video: [Laplace transform to solve a differential equation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kbp9qWS-Bsk)
* an old guy at MIT does an [Introduction to the Laplace Transform](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-03-differential-equations-spring-2010/video-lectures/lecture-19-introduction-to-the-laplace-transform/)

<hr>
<a align="left" href="week10">\<-- previous week</a>  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; <a align="right" href="week12">next week --\></a>
